Let's take a look at FAIR in context.
FAIR provides a free tool on their website where
anyone can perform a value at risk assessment.
I think when time permits,
you should spend some time familiarizing yourself with it.
We're going to take a brief look at it here.
Now, we're going to do that using the tool sample risk assessment of a fishing exploit,
which has resulted in some data loss.
In the tool, you can create a guided analysis of a potential loss of it,
you do that in the loss event frequency cluster.
Here you're going to inner variables like,
how often you expect a loss event to occur,
or how many times that you think a risk might be exploited,
and you can even enter things like,
how sophisticated an attack might need to be in order to be successful.
You'll do that here in the threat capability section.
Now, all of those factors are going to
be weighed against your anticipated loss per event,
that occurs in the loss magnitude cluster.
What you'll want to weigh is both your primary loss and your secondary losses.
That's where I think we need to be really careful.
We're attempting to estimate first,
how much a record costs,
and then second, what regulatory or customer reactions might be to our loss.
For instance, are we going to get fined by an agency or are we going to lose a customer?
I think both of these things are extremely difficult to estimate.
If you review this example,
our primary losses, actually, look pretty low.
These are losses associated with customer records or customer data.
But our secondary risks,
those are really high, those are substantial.
This is where we've estimated again,
the cost of loss of a regulatory fine or customer reaction.
So what we end up with is an annualized loss scenario of up to $7.1 million.
As you can see, this is really substantial and
that's where I think we need to be ultimately very careful,
I'm going to explain why now.
Now, as I mentioned, I think that type of
loss exposure seems really high for most organizations.
As you know, we see organizations being breached all the time,
and it's hard to imagine that too many companies could sustain a few loss events,
the total millions of dollars in losses every single year.
One of the reasons it sounds high, I think,
is because it's difficult to assign a value to a piece of data or a single record.
You may have spent only a few $100 acquiring a customer,
but the same customer may be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue,
are the customers collective records worth hundreds of thousands of dollars,
or the records really without value and it's
just the customer itself that represents value to your organization.
How much is public sentiment worth?
We know that high profile breaches,
like the target breach,
didn't appear to affect sentiment over time.
Now, we saw a slight drop in
target stock price following the public disclosure of their breach.
But the stock return to fresh highs just weeks later and it really hasn't slowed down.
That's the chart here on the right.
Finally, as it relates to value at risk,
this analysis can be time-consuming.
It can be time-consuming to create realistic value assessments.
Security controls aren't really ever applied evenly across specific risks in a system.
So even if you nail the value at risk assessment,
it might be difficult to say that you've addressed
that risk by implementing a targeted control.
Firewalls, for example, aren't normally implemented to control a single risk,
but they control risks across the organization.
This doesn't mean that value at risk is without value,
it does mean that I think it's probably too complex and
too time-consuming to be your primary method of assessing risk.